Just because you think you are a leader in an organization
does not mean anyone is following you, does it?
So every once in a while, maybe twice a year or quarterly, do a sanity check.
"If you think are leading and turn around to see no one following,
then you are just taking a walk.
" I really like this quote.
We need to do some feedback.
So what I might suggest to you is have one-on-ones with your team.
So after you've been leading your new team for a while,
maybe the first three or three weeks have gone by,
ask them how they feel about your leadership and what they
would like to see more of or maybe less of.
Get additional feedback from your manager.
Seek continuous feedback in order to calibrate and
modify your leadership behaviors, and if possible,
you should have one-on-ones with each team member about
maybe once a month and maybe at the longest,
once a quarter, to get their feedback.
Also, sit down with your key customers or stakeholders,
not just your team members, to see how well you are performing for them.
Remember, leadership does not have a boundary of just your team.
You are leading your customers to improve business processes,
make systems better, and support them.
So what do they think of your leadership?
They will be quite impressed by your sincerity to come to
them for their feedback and guidance.
Alright, let's get geeky for a minute.
Maybe your new assignment is to lead a team of geeks and to be clear,
I use the term geek in a very complimentary way.
What I mean by creative geek is someone with a
so-called independent self-concept.
Those who really don't need the group or the team to
feel whole and self-confident.
So for individuals with an independent self-concept,
it may be a real challenge to integrate them into
your team and keep them motivated.
So how do you lead strong,
creative individuals who operate outside of the group while making sure
that they don't feel totally rejected or left out?
How do you make sure independent outsiders don't become
renegades or go off the rails or are hard to manage?
Well, here are three helpful tips.
The first tip, incorporate their creativity.
Consciously reinforce the idea that creative geeks fit
into a larger collective effort.
Make it as clear as possible that their ideas are important
in moving the agenda of the gorup forward.
This brings creative geeks in while enhancing their
self-worth and celebrating their great creativity.
Also, engage them through dialogue.
Ask creative geeks what they are doing.
As how you can be of assistance.
Coach them and partner with them as much as possible.
But you will need to set boundaries.
Within your company you need to set boundaries for your most creative people.
Though you may want to give them enough space outside of the group,
you will also need to monitor them to make sure that their
agenda does not spin out of control,
putting the interest of the larger team in jeopardy.
Okay.
You are now settling in as the team leader.
How about leading a team of leaders?
What if everyone on your team was a leader in their own right?
So hey, are you the only leader in town?
We talked about delegation.
What if you could delegate leadership?
Now wouldn't that be cool?
So what if you could have a team of leaders?
How powerful could that be?
So how do you create a team of leaders?
It's by empowering every member to take ownership,
to take initiative, and to deliver results,
but how?
You might get the reaction, hey--not my problem--I'm not the boss.
So to enable ownership, delegate responsibility, let go.
Taking initiative typically ties to motivation and excitement, so foster it.
To deliver results, if you delegate responsibility and foster motivation,
the results will naturally follow.
Yes, one plus one is three.
Okay,
now let's turn our attention to some practical management practices in the next session.